Feature/clarity engine (#75)
Zenlytic/zenlytic-docs: data-modeling/join.md

# Joins

> **Topics are the primary way joins are organized and managed in Zenlytic.** [Topics](topic.md) define collections of views that can be joined together and specify how those joins work. This approach provides clearer organization, better governance, and more intuitive data relationships.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Topics are the primary way joins are organized and managed in Zenlytic.** [Topics](topic.md) define collections of views that can be joined together and specify how those joins relate to each other. This approach provides clearer organization, better governance, and more intuitive data relationships.
```

```
{% endcode %}

Then, in your topic, you can join in the view like so:

{% code overflow="wrap" %}
```yaml
type: topic
label: Zendesk Tickets
base_view: tickets
model_name: my_model

views:
  # Join using requestor_users join_as alias
  requestor_users:
    join:
      join_type: left_outer
      relationship: many_to_one
      sql_on: ${tickets.requestor_user_id} = ${requestor_users.user_id}
  
  # Join using assigned_users join_as alias
  assigned_users:
    join:
      join_type: left_outer
      relationship: many_to_one
      sql_on: ${tickets.assignee_user_id} = ${assigned_users.user_id}
      
  # Custom join with specific logic
  user_segments:
    join:
      join_type: left_outer
      relationship: many_to_one
      sql_on: ${tickets.user_id} = ${user_segments.id}
```
{% endcode %}

This will let you join in the same underlying `cx_users` table twice using different aliases and join keys.

## Best Practices

1. **Group related views logically**

> Create topics that make business sense. Don't join views only because it's possible to join them. Zoë can run queries on separate topics and merge the results afterwards, so it's not necessary all data you'd want to ask about is in the same topic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create topics that make business sense. Don't join views only because it's possible to join them. Zoë can run queries on separate topics and merge the results afterwards, so it's not necessary to ensure all data you'd want to ask about is in the same topic.
```
